## Executive Summary

In this project, data analysis was performed on Health Evaluation and Linkage to Primary Care data set. The objective of this project is to determine important attribute from health care survey data set, which affects individual's enrollment in the health care plan. The selected dataset has predictors which cover various aspects such as Demographic, Medical Status, Drug/Alcohol use, Social support, Clinical history. The dataset has 432 predictors with 842 observation. These predictors are a combination of quantitative and qualitative predictors (with different factor levels). As a supervised Data analysis problem, Enrollment to Primary Healthcare at this point of time was chosen as a response variable. The model helps to identify whether the person should opt for health care plan based on various medical conditions. As the response is categorical this is a classification problem. After considering all the predictors the prediction accuracy is low. Thus, variable selection methods such as LASSO, Random Forest, Boruta are used to identify critical factors which would have maximum impact on the health care plan decision. It is found that Boruta gives a maximum accuracy of 68.7 %. It has selected 25 predictors which have a high impact on response. The model fitting with reduced predictors increases the prediction accuracy and model interpretability. For the selected 25 predictors, different classification models are used to fit the data. These include Logistic regression, LDA, QDA, SVM, Neural network. The accuracy of each method is calculated. It is found out that the best model to fit the given data is Random Forest with an accuracy of 69% whereas the logistic and LDA have fairly good prediction accuracy of 68%.

As per our analysis, the major contributing factors to the enrollment of Primary Healthcare system are current enrollment type, substance and alcohol abuse, chronic disease status, HIV status etc. Socio-economic status is the main predictor according to which a Healthcare enrollment is decided. It is also understood that person who actively talks and seeks guidance from a medical professional is more likely to be enrolled in a healthcare plan. There is a requirement for the healthcare system to mainly poor and unemployed which is intuitively proved via this analysis.
